Now these days we all know that data is everything and in order to have crowdfunding success to some
extent your marketing efforts needs to be data driven.
So in this Munjal going to talk about analytics all the ways in which you can tap into the data of how
people coming to your crowdfunding side what are the methods that work for getting traffic.
What are the highs converting roods and much much more.
The first thing to realize is that Kickstarter really comes pre-built with a whole bunch of analytics
tools that will help you in your campaign.
So if youve ever run a Kickstarter or if you are going to you're going to become very very friendly
with this blue chart.
It's going to chart the progress of all of your pledges and your funding throughout time cumulatively.
So you'll be able to see the steepness of that curve as a reflection of how much money you're getting
in per day.
The other thing that Kickstarter gives you is a breakdown of the pledges in terms of what percentage
came from Kickstarter itself and what percentage came from outside referrers.
And then it breaks down those referrals to direct traffic where somebody just entered the realm of your
campaign.
So that's usually being shared from email or you know direct messages.
Facebook shares Twitter shares medium blog posts and it also shows you which pages on Kickstarter itself
is referring to that green slice of the pie.
So for us one of the biggest refroze was the Discover page of the technology category and that actually
brought us quite a lot of pledges.
So it's a good place to figure out which parts of the strategy are working.
Which parts or not how much of your referral if traffic is actually producing conversions and what was
the percentage conversion of each route.
So the next thing that you'll see on your stats page is your video plays essentially the view count
of your videos how many times was it watched and you can also see if it was watched on Kickstarter or
if it was embedded somewhere else.
Now depending on how you're promoting a campaign it might be that you're trying to embed your video
on a number of places or it might be that you're just sharing the links to your campaign so that people
go and watch it at the place where they can pledge which makes a little bit more sense.
But there you go and you can also see what percentage of your video was actually completed and the U.S.
is actually usually very low and 30 percent is actually not a bad number.
So even though you cut down your video to three minutes people still don't have the attention spans
to complete an entire video.
And that confirms the usual case where people tend to only watch one minute of video on any platform.
And the last thing that the kickstarted stats show is you'll reward tape popularity.
So which tears are the most popular.
Now you can and do very much about that because once you've set out a reward tier and you've got people
pledging in it even if it's just one person who pledged for it you can't change that tier at all anymore.
So you have to roll with it.
But it might be the case that you're seeing that people are more inclined towards you know the more
expensive side of the royalties.
So for example for us the Initially most popular here was actually the 69 pound tear and that led us
to realize that maybe we actually needed a slightly higher tier as well to address that market demand.
Now in terms of tracking the traffic that brings people into Kickstarter.
One of the things that you can do is you can actually create custom referral tags inside Kickstarter
so you can say something like Twitter and it generates a tag and generates a custom link that you can
use to to see in your stats page on Kickstarter where that traffic came from.
So for example if you hit up an influenza and you get them to refer traffic to your campaign it might
be worth creating a custom tag for that influencer just so you can track to see you know whether if
youre actually getting the results that youre paying for.
So theres a lot of influences in on Instagram or on Twitter who actually have fake follower accounts.
So they actually pay for followers and they pay for likes which generates this false belief that they
actually have a lot of real engagement.
But actually those numbers are fake and so you might want to track how much traffic you are actually
getting from these influences.
If you decide to go down that route.